docs: mcp sampling support (#5708)
aaif-goose/goose: documentation/docs/guides/mcp-sampling.md

---
sidebar_position: 54
title: MCP Sampling Extensions
sidebar_label: MCP Sampling
description: Transforms MCP servers into intelligent agents that can think, analyze, and make decisions using goose's AI
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

MCP Sampling can transform extensions from simple data providers into intelligent agents. Instead of just returning raw information for goose to interpret, extensions can leverage goose's AI to provide expert-level guidance, perform contextual analysis, and create entirely new interaction patterns.

> This feature is automatically enabled in goose—no configuration required! Any MCP server extension that supports sampling will automatically have access to goose's AI. This means:

Reviewer: what does goose's AI mean? is it the LLM that goose is currently using or..what..I did use goose earlier to help me understand MCP sampling, but i was still unclear on that part and I feel like the docs should have a little clarity on that

Reviewer 2: the LLM that goose is using

Reviewer: I was just giving an example to show how it made me second guess my knowledge..and if it confused me slightly..it may make others be confused. The MCP client's configured LLM is what Diane suggested, and I think is much clearer. AI is just too vague.

> This feature is automatically enabled in goose—no configuration required! Any MCP server extension that supports sampling will automatically have access to goose's AI. This means:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature is automatically enabled in goose, no configuration required! Any MCP server extension that supports sampling will automatically have access to the LLM that goose is using. This means:
```

Author: I pushed this version from my local branch, thanks!

- goose users can get more targeted responses tailored to the extension's specific capabilities

> - Developers can add sampling support to their MCP servers to provide enhanced capabilities in goose

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- developers can add sampling support to their MCP servers to provide enhanced capabilities in goose
```

:::info
[MCP Sampling](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/draft/client/sampling) is a feature in the Model Context Protocol.
:::

## How MCP Sampling Works

MCP Sampling enables extensions to ask goose's AI for help with their tasks. When an extension needs to analyze data, make intelligent decisions, or understand natural language, it can send a "sampling" request to ask for AI assistance. goose processes the request using its AI capabilities and returns the response to the extension.

This feature allows extensions to provide more specialized contextual responses or novel interaction patterns. The following example shows how a database extension could provide expert-level diagnostics by combining its domain knowledge with goose's AI analysis:

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: i like the without and with example..thats good
